A real eye and lip,
4A,
Ca
Mau province,
Namo Buddha, the original teacher,
singing,
May, wanting to punish,
four leaves, mountain,
Ca
Mau.
Dear fellow practitioners, the practice is like
this: we
walk, not sit, we walk
step by step. We walk one
step at a time, and we practice walking meditation,
but we use walking meditation to
focus our minds. That is, we
focus our minds, not paying attention to
others, sometimes even keeping track of who
is around, what people are
doing, who is walking. That is, when we focus our
minds, we discover things
we
want to share with others, we want to
call out to others, we want to let our
minds wander, and we bring it back. Then
we will see the
first thing: the power of the
mind wandering, fellow practitioners.
This power is very great.
This power of the mind wandering always makes us extremely
uneasy, fellow practitioners. If we
don't practice diligently, this mind wandering will
completely control us, that
is when...  Whenever we encounter someone's problem,
we get involved. And even if we
encounter something interesting or something that makes
us feel uneasy, we immediately run to tell
others, "Do you have that mindset, fellow practitioners?" That is, when
we encounter something, for
example, we see a couple arguing outside. And when
we
see them arguing, that burning sensation in us, that burning sensation,
makes us
unbearable, and we have to immediately go and
tell someone else about it. That's
incredibly intense burning, and only through
long periods of practice can we realize it. It
burns us because at that time, we don't
tell. We start by practicing, we listen, and
we don't tell, so we don't go looking for it.
It makes us feel uneasy, we really
want to tell, we want to go, we want to go, we want to go, we
want to go, we can't go, it's very uncomfortable.
We control
that discomfort, and the process of fighting takes a
long time. It's not easy, fellow practitioners.
So why do we have to practice that first? That's so that
we can be the one...  In
Buddhism, we should avoid the sin of false speech because those who speak falsely are
very quick to do so. For example, when
we hear a Dharma teaching or
something we don't
understand, or haven't practiced yet, we immediately
speak out as if we are the
practitioners. That is the most deadly sin.
Therefore, the first step in practice is to
control the mind so that it doesn't radiate harmful,
limited trajectories. This is very difficult; do
n't think it's easy.
While there are limited trajectories, cultivating this
is extremely beneficial because it allows
us to remain
calm and focused in the face of slander, false accusations, and all the delusions of the world. This provides immense benefits and a solid foundation for
our existence. Over time, this cultivates a clear and insightful mind. When faced with worldly matters, we will
never make hasty decisions,
and we will rarely be deceived or manipulated.
We will
remain clear-minded
because we have a clear and focused mind, seeing things from
multiple perspectives, and we won't make
immediate decisions based on the minds of others.
Therefore, we are not swayed by the minds of others.  It's about teasing and provoking one's own
negative thoughts, which is why
she said that if
someone cultivates this undisturbed mind well,
then those who intend to say
untrue things to them will
lose the feeling of
wanting to say those things halfway through. And
furthermore, when they come to you, they can't
lie. The important thing is the ability to prevent one's
mind from
wandering, making it
difficult for them to say the things
they intended to deceive you about.
So, if you just practice this one
thing—not letting your mind wander—it's already
very beneficial because it's the fundamental thing. Once you achieve
that, you can begin to
purify your mind. You will find
that in this retreat, we are
completely silent. If today, when
I passed by, I saw some
Buddhists who didn't allow large offerings to be taken, they
whispered to each other, "
Smart Pearl, take a large one." It's just that
she's in a place where you shouldn't make
noise. That's not quite practicing, is
it? Just don't cause any trouble.  It's
not about fate, it's just
because we've gone. Let's just leave it to ease the sadness.
It's not about consciously realizing
the benefits for ourselves. In
Buddhist teachings, when one can become a monk, the
monks must practice solitude. Solitude means being alone in
one place, with the motivation, meaning
handling one's own mind. The
path of solitude is important.
Above, we must practice the practice of solitude, my fellow
practitioners.
I take care of everything myself, only
focusing on myself. And we
go for walking meditation. When we go for walking meditation, I
will guide you, my fellow practitioners, so that
we will have focus when we
walk. Hai Yen will stand
here until the end of the month to guide you, so that
we can easily walk
meditation. We don't need to walk a
very long distance. We just need to
walk in a straight line like this, not too
long. That is, when we stand at an angle
like this and walk meditation,
we have a place to focus our attention. When
we step down, from the moment our right
foot goes down...  We know
that the right foot has followed, calling it that,
both right feet have touched the ground. We record
clearly this point, and when we step with the
left foot, we know that the left foot has
touched the ground. We know that it has touched, we
know that this is the right foot touching, we know that this
is the left foot touching. This is how to gather the
mind inward and
practice not being distracted or wandering. The limited trajectories mean that
even if we travel across the entire East
Sea, we can still gather it, and you have a
limited trajectory. Okay? This is what follows right view, but it has already
come before. All of
this goes in so that our mind can
turn, the mind easily turns inward,
and not be distracted. The high energy is in the meaning.
So we practice like this, and we also very much
hope that when our Buddhist followers become proficient, they will
teach their fellow Buddhist followers.
If we fail, the
result of teaching our Buddhist followers to practice is that
before we do our duties, we
assign everything. Yes, that's it. Later, they will do it. Im
Phong Phap is always noble in the realm of existence. I really
like it. Yen reminds me of a sutra, but
Yen only remembers the content.  So, this means that
one person told the king to
go to the place of the Buddha. And
before the king could ascend, he
went there and saw the entire
bamboo forest where there were many monks
meditating, completely silent, not
a sound to be heard. So the king
went up and said to the person, "
There are no people here, how could there be anyone?"
The person then said, "Go in and pay your respects to the
Buddha." Then, he saw the figures of the
monks meditating, completely silent,
without any noise. Because of this
sight, the king bowed six times to the
Buddha and praised him, saying that there was no assembly
like the assembly of the
Buddha. Why was the assembly of the
Buddha so silent? The
Buddha said it was because they were dwelling
in a state of liberation,
that's why they were silent. If we
meditate, we are dwelling in a state of
liberation, following the path of enlightenment,
without any desire for
worldly desires arising. That is, we go
like that and we eliminate those desires.  Regarding distracting
thoughts, now each person should take
a piece of paper and a pen, meaning a
notebook (which the Buddhist devotees cannot
bring along). So, we Buddhists should
focus on walking in this circle. Each time we
detect a distracting thought, the Buddhist devotee should
strike it, and then the task of
striking it will appear. Remember this: there
are two
states: those with very few distracting thoughts and those with
many distracting thoughts.
Yes, very few distracting thoughts. There are two
types: one where a person has few distracting
thoughts and focuses more on their
steps. If the distracting thoughts don't go away,
then it's considered few. Another type is when the distracting thoughts
persist, following the distracting thoughts endlessly. Sometimes, it takes
half an hour to realize
that one has already reached a high level of distracting thoughts. Like
the story the master told about
the young monk who served him. Then a
distracting thought arose about a
girl, and he followed the thought until he
calculated that he would go home, get married, have children, and have
a
child.  Then, when his wife was carrying the
baby, she dropped it, and he got so angry that he grabbed a stick and
hit her. It turned out he was actually fanning himself
for his master, so he hit her right there. That
's what happened before, but he was plagued by delusions. These
delusions were so long that they spanned from love
to marriage to going home, working, having
children, taking care of them, and then hitting his wife. He even
hit his master on the head! That's how
one delusion ends. He sees the path of filial piety.
Following such delusions, he abandoned the thoughts
and began to follow the consequences, arranging even a
girl. That's Sister Hang. Secondly, there
are fewer dashes and fewer markings because his
delusions were too long, so
long that sometimes, even after the
meditation session, the delusion still hadn't ended. Sometimes, when he
heard the whistle, he'd suddenly realize, "I'm
going to pay you, brother." He'd suddenly realize, "Is
there any fellow practitioner who goes chanting scriptures and gets
so sleepy that they tap their fingers very evenly while chanting?
We don't have
pictures; it's all like that. It's not noble at all. He's tapping his
fingers very evenly while still chanting scriptures, but he fell
asleep without realizing it. You
see, Thuy Mien is like that, you see?"
The terrible thing is that we ourselves are
not awakened, not
aware, it drags us along with terrible
karmic delusions. So if
we regularly practice, it's good to be a good person, a child of a good
person,
because we
detect delusions after walking for a while. Sometimes, just after we've crossed a
line, we take two steps and the delusion reappears, and we
detect that line again. In the middle of the path, it is
this line that
awakens us, my fellow practitioners. Is that clear? It's
clearly done, my fellow
practitioners. So, that's the end of the
walking meditation session, right?
[Music] [Applause] [
Music]
[Applause]
[Music]